When you avoid sadness altogether, you're actually doing more harm than good. You can't heal what you don't feel. Stop avoiding it and embrace your sadness.;

You may believe that your worrying helps you avoid bad things, prevents problems, prepares you for the worst, or leads to solutions. But it does not. It’s tough to break the worry habit if you believe that your worrying serves a positive purpose. Once you realize that worrying is the problem, not the solution, you can regain control of your worried mind.;

Research shows that while you’re worrying, you temporarily feel less anxious. Running over the problem in your head distracts you from your emotions and makes you feel like you’re getting something accomplished. But worrying and problem solving are two very different things.;

Numerous scientific studies have shown that more we try to get rid of unwanted thoughts, the more these thoughts stick and increase in frequency and intensity. Trying to control a thought is a lot like trying to keep a beach ball underwater. The harder you push it down, the more it resists and wants to come up to the surface!;
 
Everyone has different triggers, and identifying them is one of the most important steps to coping and managing anxiety attacks.;
 
Exercising regularly, eating balanced meals, getting enough sleep, and staying connected to people who care about you are great ways to stave off anxiety symptoms.;

If you drink coffee or alcohol, try to cut back or avoid them if you can. These two can make anxiety kick into overdrive. Instead of coffee try chocolate or tea.;

You might find it hard to explain to people why you feel this way, but talking to someone could help you find a solution, whether it be a friend, family member, or therapist.;

If feeling empty is becoming an increasingly large problem for you, it could signify that you are starting to become more conscious. We are all brainwashed and conditioned to act in certain ways. Since childhood, we are pressured to conform and fit into nice little boxes by our parents, teachers, and society at large.;

If emptiness is a constant companion with you, even on your spiritual path, it could be because you are suppressing and repressing emotion.;

If you are unable to think of solutions other than suicide, it is not that other solutions don’t exist, but rather that you are currently unable to see them. The intense emotional pain that you’re experiencing right now can distort your thinking so it becomes harder to see possible solutions to problems—or to connect with those who can offer support.;

Although it might seem as if your pain and unhappiness will never end, it is important to realize that crises are usually temporary. Solutions are often found, feelings change, unexpected positive events occur. Remember: suicide is a permanent solution to a temporary problem. Give yourself the time necessary for things to change and the pain to subside.;


 
