Instead of trying to control, reason with, or react to thoughts, let them enter and leave your mind freely, without engaging them or getting attached to them. Try R.O.L.Ling with your thoughts and simply let them be. RECOGNIZE the thought - it is merely a thought and nothing else. OBSERVE the thought - don't judge or try to change it in any way. LET GO of the thought - imagine them as clouds floating in the sky, or leaves flowing down a gentle stream.; 

Try the 4-7-8 technique. First, let your lips part. Make a whooshing sound, exhaling completely through your mouth. Second, close your lips, inhaling silently through your nose as you count to four in your head. Then, for seven seconds, hold your breath. Make another whooshing exhale from your mouth for eight seconds. When you inhale again, you initiate a new cycle. Practice this pattern for four full breaths.;

Try aromatherapy. Whether they're in oil form, incense, or a candle, scents like lavender, chamomile, and sandalwood can be very soothing. Aromatherapy is thought to help activate certain receptors in your brain, potentially easing anxiety.;

Sometimes, the best way to stop anxious thoughts is to walk away from the situation. Taking some time to focus on your body and not your mind may help relieve your anxiety. Go for a walk or do 15 minutes of yoga.;

Breathe deep. It sends a message to your brain that you're OK. That helps your mind and body relax. To get the most out of it, lie down on a flat surface and put one hand on your belly and the other on your chest. Take a slow breath in. Make sure it fills your belly enough that you can feel it rise slightly. Hold it for a second, then slowly let it out.;

Mindfulness practices involve focusing your awareness on what’s happening in the present moment without judgement. When negative thoughts come up, you acknowledge them and let them move on.;
Ask yourself, what evidence proves this thought true? What is the probability it will actually happen? Will this thought help you?;

Try exercising. Exercise is a natural and effective anti-anxiety treatment because it releases endorphins which relive tension and stress, boost energy, and enhance your sense of well-being. Even more importantly, by really focusing on how your body feels as you move, you can interrupt the constant flow of worries running through your head.;

Practice progessive muscle relaxation. This can help you break the endless loop of worrying by focusing your mind on your body instead of your thoughts. By alternating tensing and then releasing different muscle groups in your body, you release muscle tension in your body. And as your body relaxes, your mind will flow.;

Try deep breathing. When you worry, you become anxious and breathe faster, often leading to further anxiety. But by practicing deep breathing exercises, you can calm your mind and quiet negative thoughts.;

Try mindfullness. Acknowledge and observe your worries. Don’t try to ignore, fight, or control them like you usually would. Instead, simply observe them as if from an outsider’s perspective, without reacting or judging.;

Stay focused on the present. Pay attention to the way your body feels, the rhythm of your breathing, your ever-changing emotions, and the thoughts that drift across your mind. If you find yourself getting stuck on a particular thought, bring your attention back to the present moment.;

Don't feel bad about feeling sad. Attempt to cry it out. Put on a movie or listen to music that will make you cry, and experience a feeling of release. This may seem counter-intuitive, but there is actually an endorphin released when you cry that is known to reduce pain and improve mood.;

Find what makes you happy, and laugh. Pick a few authors, musicians and/or movies that really make you feel good. Laughing in response to pain can be a terrific coping mechanism. Laughter releases endorphins similar to exercise, reduces the stress hormone, and increases dopamine.;

If you have a friend or family member you can talk to, please talk to them about how you're feeling. Talking to someone instead of staying inside your head might be the remedy you've been needing.;

Go outside and experience the outdoors with your five senses. Paying attention to what you see, feel, hear, smell, and possibly taste in nature may help you out of your slump.;

If you're experiencing emptiness acknowledge it, and be gentle with yourself. Don't beat yourself up for feeling empty. Don't try to dismiss or change your feelings.;

If you're feeling empty, carve out time to explore your own desires, fears, hopes and dreams. This helps you create more meaning in your daily life and your future.;

If you're suicidal and in a lot of pain right now, give yourself some distance between thoughts and action. Make a promise to yourself: “I will wait 24 hours and won’t kill myself during that time.” Or, wait a week.;

Find someone you trust and let them know how bad things are. Don’t let fear, shame, or embarrassment prevent you from seeking help. And if the first person you reach out to doesn’t seem to understand, try someone else.;

If the first person you reached out to doesn’t seem to understand, tell someone else or call a suicide crisis helpline. Don’t let a bad experience stop you from finding someone who can help.;

If you have thoughts of killing yourself, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255. Or try seeking therapy and talking to someone you can trust.;

Self-awareness is one of the most powerful personal development tools in your arsenal. Make use of it by understanding the root causes of your self-doubt. What specific situations trigger bouts of self doubt? If it's a lack of skill in an area, resolve to do something about it.;

Telling yourself to stop thinking about something can backfire. The more you try to avoid the thought from entering your brain, the more likely it is to keep popping up. Busying yourself with an activity is the best way to change the channel. Exercise, engage in conversation on a completely different subject or get working on a project that will distract your mind from a barrage of negative thoughts.;



 
